Sadhguru, can you tell us what is the path of Sahasrar?
Have there been Yogis who belong to that tradition?
The Sahasrar is total madness.
Those of you, who've been in Bhava Spandanas,
may be - not all the time, after,
in those three-and-a-half days of pain and suffering
there might have been moments…
there might have been moments, or a few moments, where
you seemed to be dripping something too pleasant, you're dripping ecstasy,
but, of course, you felt battered,
that is we're trying to counterbalance so that you don't remain in the program forever.
So, you might have felt a few moments because energies have touched Sahasrar.
The moment energies touch Sahasrar, without any reason, you drip ecstasy.
Sahasrar is not a path. When we use the word path,
it means a demarcated way, an established way.
Something is demarcated. To demarcate, you need a physical space.
Without a physical space, you cannot demarcate.
So sahasrar is not a physical space,
In the geography of the body, it has a physical presence but it's not a physical space,
it does not represent a physical space.
Because of this, there is no path. There're any number of
indications about this, there are any number of examples in the tradition.
Probably one dramatic example
would be of Totapuri and Ramakrishna Paramahamsa.
Ramakrishna, who was a bit too much into sahasrar, wouldn't have lasted long because
that is not a space where one can hold onto physical body and exist.
As ecstatic and fantastic as it is, it is not a living space,
it is a going space.
Once in a way, you can touch it and be back. When somebody
stays there for too long.
things will happen, body won't hold.
So, you've heard of Totapuri taking a piece of glass and
cutting his agna to bring him down
to clarity and to knowing, rather than simply floating around in ecstasy.
Is floating around in ecstasy not good? It's great
but you cannot work in that condition, you cannot manifest something
in that condition. That condition is like inebriation.
It is wonderful, existentially fantastic, but
in terms of human activity, it's not great
because you cannot be functional in those states.
Even if you're functional, you're not very effective.
It's a fuzzy world between physical and nonphysical.
So, the less we say about sahasrar, better because
right now we are on a mission. we can't afford fuzzy world. Here and there,
we party a bit.
We have our Bhava Spandanas, we have our satsangs,
and here and there we party a little bit. But then we want to be down
and be focused on what we need to do
because that will not be possible if everybody is in sahasrar.
And if everybody starts inhabiting there,
they won't be here for long, they'll be gone.
In India, there is a certain symbolism of amrita coming out of the ocean,
Shiva drinking up the poison part of it
and everybody wanting to drink the amrita or the elixir of life
and between two groups of...
between those two groups who are fighting to drink amrita and make themselves immortal,
all that stuff. Essentially,
amrita is immortality, in the sense
that your experience of life rises beyond physical.
When your experience of life rises beyond the physical,
you're obviously immortal in some way.
Immortality does not mean we will have to endure you forever.
It means that we don't have to endure you at all because
your physical nature is almost gone. So,
to put it in terms of chakras, it's sahasrar. So what you're seeing as a...
a third day moon is
a drip of this. Three drops of amruta  dripped out
of Shiva's sahasrar and everybody is trying to access it.
He is wearing it as an ornament.
This's important. He is wearing it as an ornament, sitting on his head.
That means there is a tinge of ecstasy, always
but he is not immersed in it. Sometimes he goes into it, but
otherwise there is always a tinge of ecstasy.
If there is no this tinge of ecstasy, one cannot sit.
One can sit simply here
without any need to do anything outside,
without the need to pursue pleasure or fulfillment
because there is a tinge of ecstasy. If
That means you're mildly buzzed out. If you're fully drunk,
then you'll be useless. When I say useless,
in terms of the world, not in terms of life.
In terms of life, that is also okay. But in terms of activity in the world,
you could become incapacitated.
But with a tinge of ecstasy, now
you can be into endless slavery,
that you can do any amount of things and still feel you've done nothing
because there's a tinge of ecstasy. It is like people who get little drunk,
they dance and dance and dance till their legs fall off.
They wouldn't be able to do that at other times because there's a tinge of ecstasy.
So, you can either dance, or work, or do whatever,
create something, without any sense of burdensomeness
because there is a tinge of ecstasy.
So Shiva is representative of this,
Adiyogi is representative of this, that always there is a tinge of ecstasy…
As I said, if you're well-established
and there is a tinge of ecstasy, it's fantastic.
But if you only seek that,
it's still fantastic but a rather bit too fantastic,
that it may become...
you may move from reality to another fantastic world.
Right now la-la land has become a famous term once again.
so you may be little la-la – wonderful for you,
but needs to be rooted in this world
because there are things to be done here too.
You've heard about Shiva being in ecstatic states, when he's inaccessible
and unavailable. And someone
who is so focused and intense, suddenly is all woozy-woozy,
that he's not available. That's because these are sahasrar times,
when even someone as intense and focused as him
is too drunk, too inebriated for action.
As you know, of all the…If you…
Of all divine entities, probably – not probably, is
Shiva is the most athletic. That means he signifies action.
But he gets woozy sometimes because he's in sahasrar.
So it is not a path. You go to sahasrar because you want to get lost,
not you want to find yourself, you want to just get lost.
So when you feel like getting lost – sahasrar.
When you feel like finding yourself, you need to be on some path.
Is there a tradition of getting lost? Yes there is but you can't make a form out of it.